In the last lecture, we learned how we can retrieve our route params.
That's awesome and this is super important and something you will probably use a lot.
Now there are more things you can add to your URL though.
You might have query parameters,
these are the parameters separated by a question mark, like mode equals editing, anything
and you can have multiple ones separated with @ signs.
The question now is how you can pass them using Angular links,
routerLinks
and how can you then retrieve them?
You might also have a hash fragment,
so separated with the hash sign to jump to a specific place in your app, loading for example or maybe you
don't really want to use this to jump there,
you would have to add this scroll down there behavior on your own,
maybe you just want to retrieve it to use it as some extra information.
Let's take a closer look at how we can pass this extra information on our links, both when using the
routerLink directive and the navigate method in code and how we can then retrieve that information.
Let's start by passing it first. Let's say in our app module, we want to add more routes. For our servers
here,
we also want to add one other route and that would be the route which allows us to edit a certain server,
so we might load a server with some ID and then have slash added at the end to describe in the URL
what will happen in this component
and here it would be the edit-server.component we want to load. So we added this new route which should
load this component in this edit server file,
now to be able to load this route on my servers component here, I want to hook up these links here in
this list,
we still have to do the same for the users component later.
So here, I will add my routerLink and I will use the square brackets syntax again so that I
can pass an array here because I want to go to /servers,
then let's say a server with ID 5,
we will soon learn how to make this more dynamic
and then also add it, so this is this newly created route I
want to call in this case.
If we save this and we go to servers and click on this, you'll see we loaded servers/5/edit and the
same for every link of course,
again I will change this soon.
Now let's say we also want to have some query parameter deciding on whether we are allowed to edit the
server or not.
So we want to add this questionmark and we don't do it by adding questionmark equals something here
as another element in this array, instead when using a link in the template, we add a new property of this
routerLink directive
we can bind to the query params property.
Now query params and that's important is not a new directive,
it's just another bindable property of the routerLink directive
and here we have to pass a Javascript object and on query params, we can now define key-value pairs
of the parameters we want to edit.
So for example say allowEdit here and set this to one,
now let's see what happens if we now click this link. If we now click any link here, you'll see we have questionmark
allowEdit 1 here,
so that's the key-value pair
we set up in this object and of course you could have more key-value pairs here which would then be
separated with an and sign in between
in your link.
So that's the query params property,
we also have the fragment property and that is only fragment because you may only have one fragment.
Here,
you could simply pass a string with single quotation marks or therefore, omit the square brackets and
set this to let's say loading.
So if we now save this and we go back to the servers page,
now you see we have hash loading at the end,
this is how you can add a fragment.
So super easy to add in our routerLink here in our template,
let's now see how we can do the same programmatically.
So in our home component where we already have this load service button,
let's say we want to load server 1.
So here I will change this name to load server and pass one as an argument maybe, adjust this method here,
load server and the ID will be passed as an argument as we just saw
and here I therefore want to navigate to servers, pass the ID,
we're already seeing how this gets more dynamic,
now we're not hardcoding 5 or something like this, we're using this argument here instead
and then as a last argument, edit.
Now again, we still want to add query params and this fragment.
So here in the navigate method, we use this object we already saw where we already added relativeTo.
Now I don't need relativeTo here,
instead here I can also set up my query params and that again is then just a Javascript object where
we say allowEdit and set this to one maybe and just as I add query params, I can also add the fragment
here and set this to loading.
Now with this if we save this and we go back to our home page and click load server, you'll see we add
the query parameter, allowEdit and set it equal to one and the hash fragment here.
So that is how we can use query parameters and fragments on both the programmatical routing approach,
calling it from the TypeScript code or on the routerLink, like here.
Now let's also learn how we can retrieve the data
thereafter.